Councillors & committees (#2)
umanitoba-cssa/constitution: Constitution.md

15. Enforce that the transition report is done by April 30 of the council’s term.
16. Perform any other duties incidental to the office of the President or directed by Council.

### Director of Internal Affairs

1. Ensure the Council is kept updated on ongoing council initiatives.
2. Reserve the meeting room for CSSA executive meetings, general meetings and the CS Executive Assembly.
3. Prepare an agenda and council package for executive meetings and distribute them to the Council at least one week prior to the meeting.
4. Record meeting minutes during CSSA executive meetings and CS Executive Assemblies, or appoint another Council member to do so.
5. Work with the President(s) to assign any actionable tasks that come about in meetings to members of Council.
6. Work with the Director of Events to reserve rooms, equipment, and/or catering for on-campus activites.

> 7. Monitor applications for Councillor positions and present them for consideration at CSSA executive meetings.

Reviewer: Is this internal's job? should it just be done by the leads of the relevant committee?

Reviewer 2: Internal is making sure of it. They can choose to delegate to others if they want

Author: Councillor apps can be independent of committees in my mind's eye so used Internal to cover that case. Ultimately if a committee lead decides they want to do the monitoring/presenting/etc for their own committee, that's no problem! Internal should be the one taking the reponsibility if nobody else volunteers though, agree

3. Monitor maintenance of the CSSA Office, CSSA Lounge, and purchase pertinent supplies when needed.
4. Ensure appropriate reservation, organization, and signage for events that take place in the CSSA Lounge.
5. Ensure that the CSSA lounge is a safe and inclusive space.
6. Work with the Director of Finances and the Finance Committee to record lounge transactions.
7. Lead the Lounge Committee, call committee meetings and delegate tasks to committee members.
8. Perform other duties incidental to this office within reasonable discretion as directed by the President and/or Council.

### Director of Student Affairs

1. Act as a liaison for the students towards the Department of Computer Science, Faculty of Science and UMSU.
2. Act as a liaison between students and Council.
3. Stay up to date on Faculty and Senate meetings pertaining to the Computer Science program.
4. Attend Student Executive Assembly (SEA) Meetings and Department of Computer Science Meetings on behalf of the CSSA, or put fair effort into acquiring a proxy from Council.

> 5. Summarize the relevant contents of external meetings, including but not limited to those listed above, to Council.

Reviewer: nit: can we just mention the meetings by name or refer directly to points 3 and 4.

Reviewer 2: I assume to cover changes and additional ones that come up, eg the new science one

Author: Yeah my thought was that there may be some that aren't covered in points 3 and 4, I could make it less wordy by saying "external meetings" and cutting it off there

> 6. Lead relevant campaigns on issues affecting the Computer Science Student Community.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
6. Lead relevant campaigns on issues affecting computer science students.
```

unless Computer Science Student Community is an actually defined group somewhere.

Reviewer 2: Maybe a more accurate would be parts of the CS community that are affected by it? Or is this like a united we stand so if it affects some we all go to war

Author: Agree that "Computer Science Student Community" sounds like an official thing the way it's layed out here. I kinda prefer "computer science students"

7. Work with the Director of Internal Affairs to maintain communication with other University of Manitoba student groups.
8. Work with the Director of Advocacy to promote opportunities of initiative/programs/organizations pertaining to where the Computer Science community is underrepresented.
9. Ensure that the CSSA lounge is a safe and inclusive space.
10. Perform other duties incidental to this office within reasonable discretion as directed by the President and/or Council.

### Director of Events

> 1. Oversee the planning the events for the Computer Science community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Oversee the planning of events for the computer science community.
```

> 2. Coordinate a minimum of one event or academic initiative in each term, as per the discretion of the Council.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Coordinate a minimum of one event or academic initiative in each academic term, at the discretion of the Council.
```

(sorry I know these tweaks are unrelated to the amendment and I should have caught them earlier)

3. Ensure there are an adequate number of social and academic events.
4. Work in collaboration with other groups to promote and assist with collaborative events and initiatives.
5. Ensure that the CSSA lounge is a safe and inclusive space.
6. Work with the Director of Promotions to create posters and advertisements for all CSSA events.

> 7. Ensure posters and advertisements for CSSA events are in an accessible format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Ensure advertisements in an accessible format are created for all CSSA events.
```

it is not possible to make all forms of advertising accessible, as long as there are _some_ forms of accessible advertising I think that is sufficient.

8. Work with the Director of Promotions to advertise group events on the CSSA's social media pages.
9. Perform other duties incidental to this office within reasonable discretion as directed by the President and/or Council.

### Director of Advocacy
If not filled by an elected executive in the CSSA elections, an elected executive of an UMSU recognized underrepresented community within the Department of Computer Science may be appointed as the Director of Advocacy for the CSSA, e.g., the Women in Computer Science Council.

1. Act as a liason between CSSA and UMSU community representatives: 2SLGBTQIA+, Accessibility, Black, Indigenous, International, Mature, Racialized and Women.
2. Attend UMSU Community Assemblies.
3. Guide the council on advocacy for underrepresented communities.
4. Ensure that the CSSA lounge is a safe and inclusive space.

> 5. Oversee the election of Community Advocates and ensure that it is run competently, fairly, and transparently to CSSA's members.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
5. Oversee the election of Community Advocates and ensure that it is run competently, fairly, without bias, and transparently to CSSA's members.
```

(maybe idk :shrug:)

Reviewer 2: Does "fairly" umbrella it? Should we add "accessibly"

6. Work with, call meetings with, and delegate tasks to Community Advocates.
7. Perform other duties incidental to this office within reasonable discretion as directed by the President and/or Council.

### Director of Finances
1. Act as a signing authority for CSSA.

> 2. Providing a brief report on CSSA finances and expenses at each meeting.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
2. Provide a brief report on CSSA finances and expenses at each meeting.
```

but also are we sure we want to mandate this in the constitution? every single meeting?

Reviewer 2: I think yes, even if the update is "no update this week" we should. A week is a bit time from finance perspective so accountability for them to staying up to date on bank account or any frauds etc.

Author: I'll say "regular updates" as to not overregulate, how about?

> 3. Be responsible for all funds generated by Council events and for overseeing all funds spent by Council.

Reviewer: i think I would split this into multiple points

- Be responsible for and track all funds generated by Council events.
- Oversee and track all expenditures generated by Council.
- Approve or deny purchase requests generated by Council with discretion and with the best interests of the CSSA in mind.

Im not sure I really like how I worded the 2nd and 3rd points there but hopefully someone gets the gist and can rephrase it better lol

Author: Last point I ended up rewording as "potential expenditures" and also saying "*members of the* CSSA" for disambiguation

> 4. Make available all audits of CSSA to any Student members upon request with more than two weeks of notice.

Reviewer: just a question but what audits? just the year end audits we do ourselves? we cant afford real 3rd party audits. not sure if there are audits by umsu or something.

Reviewer 2: Yes umsu has audits, and I think we would be transparent enough that it shouldn't come up as much from students but still can have there

Author: Mostly had our personal audits in mind even though it's very "just take my word for it." Good to know that UMSU does audits as well

5. Perform a year-end audit at the end of the CSSA Fiscal Year.
6. Prepare and present the budgets for group activities.

> 7. Contact UMSU, the Science Students' Association, and external sponsors for funding when appropriate.

Reviewer: I think also add this point to events director (but just "for events funding")

If an executive officer is dismissed, the club must follow [**Section 3: Club Changeover**](#section-3-club-changeover) in order to follow the proper procedure(s) outlined to fill the vacant position(s).

## Article 2d: Committees, Councillors, and Community Advocates

### Committees
A Committee is a group of council members that forms to complete a well-defined goal. Any Executive Officer may propose a committee by outlining its purpose and the criteria of its members (if any). The Council will vote on the formation of this Committee, and upon its formation, the proposing Executive Officer will lead it.

> A Committee leader will have the following duties:

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
A Committee leader has the following duties:
```

1. Appoint Committee members from Council.

> 2. If applicable, announce the formation of the Committee to Members of the Association so that they may apply for it.

Reviewer: nit: should "Members of the Association" be capitalized? maybe just "members of the CSSA"?

3. Outline the necessary tasks for the Committee to complete its goal.
4. Assign tasks to Committee members.
5. Call Committee meetings.
6. Report on Committee activites and progress at Council meetings.
7. Appoint a proxy Committee leader in the event that they become unavailable to lead.

If a Committee leader deems the Committee's goal to be fulfilled, they may propose its dissolution to be voted on by the Council.

### Councillors
Councillors are non-voting members of council. Members of CSSA may apply for a Councillor position through an application that is publicly available throughout the year. Councillor applicants may indicate their interest to join an active committee. Once appointed by the Council, a Councillor may assume a general purpose volunteer role, or be appointed to a committee that they express interest in.

### Community Advocates

> Applicants will have the option to self-nominate for a Community Advocate position on their Councillor application. However, self-nominations for Community Advocates will close [WITHIN SOME TIME LIMIT], after which the option will be removed from application form.

Reviewer: question: is this a separate form from councillors?

ps. don't forget to fill in the time limit :P

Reviewer 2: Can we arbitrarily define that these should be done before the start of community assemblies or is that too vague

Author: 1. I was thinking the same form but with a question for self-nom, then that question gets removed after the time limit.
2. "before community assemblies" is a touch vague for my liking, how about tentatively end of september? I'll put that in for now and we'll see what thoughts people have

Applicants may choose one or more of the following Community Advocate roles:
- Women's Advocate
- Accessibility Advocate
- 2SLGBTQIA+ Students' Advocate
- Indigenous Students' Advocate
- Black Students' Advocate
- International Students' Advocate
- Mature Students' Advocate
- Racialized Students' Advocate

An applicant must self-identify as a member of the community they are self-nominating to advocate for.

> If multiple applicants self-nominate for the same Community Advocate role, the role will be voted on by CSSA members that self-identify as members of that community. The Director of Advocacy is responsible for overseeing and administering this process.

Reviewer: what if we dont have members who self-identify in that community?

Reviewer 2: It's ok to have a vacant role. Even the umsu mature rep role has been vacant for a few years. Giving the option from someone of the community to represent would be ideal but if not the other advocates would likely still be working together to make sure everyone is included

Author: Agree w/Isham, I'll put that in more explicitly ty!

Edit: just realized you probably meant if there are no community members to elect that position- in that case I think it's ok to leave it up to the Director of Advocacy to appoint a position? that imo falls under "overseeing the process" but we can make it clearer if that's a concern. a little bit worried about tying future execs' hands
